Confidentiality Only mode
    ECB, CBC, CTR

Important characteristics
    Can en/decryption run in parallel?
    Can support random access?



Block Cipher Modes

ECB
    Composition: do nothing, just apply the block cipher to plaintext

    Pros: can parallelize encryption/decryption
          no additional process
          can encrypt arbitrary length data with padding

    Cons: Same plaintext will always result in the same plaintext result

    Taint effect: A specific bit error in the ciphertext results in
                  a random bit error because the ciphertext is directly
                  decrypted by a block cipher, which is a PRP.

    Decryption: can run in parallel
    Encryption: can run in parallel
    Random access: YES

CBC (Cipher Block Chain)
    Composition: Use the Initialization Vector (IV). It goes to the
    first block, and is XOR'ed to the first plaintext block. The next
    block will use the previous ciphertext as its IV.
    That's why it is called Cipher Block Chain

    Pros: No more plaintext-ciphertext pattern leak issue
          Can parallelize decryption
          1 XOR operation is negligible to the performance

    Cons: need IV, 16 byte more data per each message encryption
          Cannot parallelize encryption

    Caveat: IV need to be drawn (secure) randomly, and then it
            must not be re-used

    Taint effect: a specific bit error in the tainted ciphertext
                  results in having random bit errors in the plaintext
                  of the same block, because that will directly be decrypted
                  by the block cipher, which is a PRP. But for the next block,
                  that error result in a specific bit error because
                  the ciphertext will be directly XOR'ed to the plaintext of
                  the next block.

                  All other blocks are intact.

    Decryption: can run in parallel
    Encryption: cannot run in parallel
    Random access: YES

CTR (Counter Mode)

    Composition: select a nonce, and add a 0 counter. The first block encrypts
                 (nonce || counter) and then use that as one-time pad (via XOR)
                 to the plaintext. Next block will increase the counter and
                 repeat the process.

    Pros:   Can parallelize Encryption/Decryption
            Just XOR after encryption, performant
            No plaintext-ciphertext pattern leak issue
            Can build a stream cipher scheme

    Cons:   Need IV (nonce + initiail_counter)

    Caveat: nonce||counter must not be repeatedly used

    Taint effect: The same as the XOR cipher; a specific bit error will shown
                  as a specific bit error in the plaintext

    Decryption: can run in parallel
    Encryption: can run in parallel
    Random access: YES


Chosen Plaintext Attack
    Assuming attackers can get the ciphertext of any plaintext
    Implication: playing with plaintext to do cryptanalysis

Chosen Ciphertext Attack
    Assuming attackers can get the ciphertext of any plaintext
    Implication: playing with ciphertext to do cryptanalysis

Block Cipher Schemes are usually secure against CPA; IND-CPA.
Block Cipher Schemes with Confidentiality mode are not IND-CCA.



Attacks on Ciphertext

ECB: manipulate a specific bit -> decrypting a different number -> random error

CBC:
The block: a specific bit -> decrypting a different number -> random error
The next block: a specific bit -> xor'ed to the plaintext of next block
                -> specific error

CTR
The block: an encrypted counter will be Xor'ed to the ciphertext,
so a specific bit error in the counter mode is specific bit error
in the plaintext.


